#summary Warp Persist 2.0.

= Warp Persist 2.0 =

The second major Warp Persist release was based around the following themes:
 * Making things even simpler.
 * Supporting third party persistence extensions.
 * Support the usage of multiple (instances of) persistence engines next to each other.

== New Features ==
 * Pluggable persistence engines (`Persistence.using(...)`) and an SPI (`com.wideplay.warp.persist.spi`).
 * Support for multiple persistence modules (MultipleModulesDesign).
 * Hibernate, JPA and DB4O now expose a builder API as an alternative to automagical bindings (using the previous two features).
 * `SessionPerRequestFilter` unification: `PersistenceFilter`. It also starts / stops all `PersistenceService` instances.
 * `PersistenceService`s now start automatically (but can still be started on demand).
 * Hibernate Dynamic Finders now support `@Named` arrays and collections.
 * Dynamic Accessors now support `@Transactional`.
 * Calls to `forAll(...)` in the fluent interface can now be chained to bind the transaction interceptor multiple times.
 * We now ship a module with utility bindings called `PersistenceServiceExtrasModule`. It currently only contains a binding for `List<PersistenceService>`.
 * Guice 2.0 is now supported and recommended.
 * New documentation homepage: http://code.google.com/docreader/#p=warp-persist

== Breaking Changes ==
 * Removed all `SessionPerRequestFilter` classes.
 * Moved Hibernate, JPA and DB4O support into the `com.wideplay.warp.persist` package hierarchy.
 * Removed JTA legacy code (no longer supported)
 * Removed `TransactionStrategy` and `transactedWith(...)` in the fluent interface (only local transactions are supported)
 * Fluent interface returns different types in some cases (for `forAll` chaining)
 * We now throw more exceptions, for example when using `TransactionType.READ_ONLY` with something else than Hibernate, or when trying to use Dynamic Finders with DB4O in Stage.DEVELOPMENT.